a lender contact can be a company?



Show thinking
Yes, absolutely. That is an essential requirement for a realistic finance module. A lender is often a company (a bank, a credit card company, a car financing service) and not just a person.

Our current design links a loan to a Contact, which is intended for people. To handle this properly and elegantly, we will upgrade the Loans table to a more flexible polymorphic relationship.

The Core Concept: A "Creditor" Can Be a Person or a Company
Instead of having a rigid link only to the Contacts table, we will modify the Loans table so it can link to an entry in either the Contacts table or the Companies table.

1. The Data Model Upgrade
This change is simple but very powerful. We will replace the single creditor_contact_id with two new columns that define both the ID and the type of the creditor.

SQL

-- [MODIFIED] We are upgrading the Loans table to support multiple creditor types.

-- First, we remove the old, restrictive column.
ALTER TABLE Loans DROP COLUMN creditor_contact_id;

-- Then, we add the new polymorphic columns.
ALTER TABLE Loans
ADD COLUMN creditor_id UUID, -- The ID of the contact OR company
ADD COLUMN creditor_type VARCHAR(50); -- 'contact' or 'company'
How this works:

If the lender is a person (John Smith):
creditor_id: will be the contact_id of John Smith.
creditor_type: will be 'contact'.
If the lender is a company (Toyota Financial Services):
creditor_id: will be the company_id of Toyota Financial.
creditor_type: will be 'company'.
2. The User Experience in Practice
This change makes the app much more intuitive.

A. The Web App: Creating a New Loan
When you click [+ Add New Loan], the form will have a field labeled "Lender / Creditor."

This field will now be a universal search box.
When you start typing "Toyo...", the search results will show:
🏢 Toyota Financial Services (an entity from your Companies list)
When you start typing "John...", the search results will show:
👤 John Smith (an entity from your Contacts list)
The UI will use different icons (like 🏢 for a company and 👤 for a person) to make the distinction clear. You simply select the correct entity, and the system handles the rest in the background.